Normans! bravest of nations! I have no doubt of your courage, and none of your victory, which
never by any chance or obstacle escaped your efforts. If indeed you had, once only, failed to
conquer, there might be a need now to inflame your courage by exhortation; but your native
spirit does not require to be roused. Bravest of men, what could the power of the Frankish King
effect with all his people, from Lorraine to Spain, against Hastings my predecessor? What he
wanted of France he took, and gave to the King only what he pleased. What he had, he held as
long as it suited him, and relinquished it only for something better. Did not Rollo my ancestor,
founder of our nation, with our fathers conquer at Paris the King of the Franks in the heart of
his kingdom, nor had the King of the Franks any hope of safety until he humbly offered his
daughter and possession of the country, which, after you, is called Normandy.
Did not your fathers capture the King of the Franks at Rouen, and keep him there until he
restored Normandy to Duke Richard, then a boy; with this condition, that, in every conference
between the King of France and the Duke of Normandy, the duke should wear his sword, while
the King should not be permitted to carry a sword nor even a dagger. This concession your
fathers compelled the great King to submit to, as binding for ever. Did not the same duke lead
your fathers to Mirmande, at the foot of the Alpes, and enforce submission from the lord of the
town, his son-in-law, to his own wife, the duke's daughter? Nor was it enough for you to
conquer men, he conquered the devil himself, with whom he wrestled, cast down and bound
him with his hands behind his back, and left him a shameful spectacle to angels. But why do I
talk of former times? Did not you, in our own time, engage the Franks at Mortemer? Did not
the Franks prefer flight to battle, and use their spurs? While you—Ralph, the commander of the
Franks having been slain—reaped the honour and the spoil as the natural result of your usual
success. Ah! let any one of the English whom, a hundred times, our predecessors, both Danes
and Normans, have defeated in battle, come forth and show that the race of Rollo ever suffered
a defeat from his time until now, and I will withdraw conquered. Is it not, therefore, shameful
that a people accustomed to be conquered, a people ignorant of war, a people even without
arrows, should proceed in order of battle against you, my brave men? Is it not a shame that
King Harold, perjured as he was in your presence, should dare to show his face to you? It is
amazing to me that you have been allowed to see those who, by a horrible crime, beheaded
your relations and Alfred my kinsman, and that their own heads are still on their shoulders.
Raise your standards, my brave men, and set neither measure nor limit to your merited rage.
May the lightning of your glory be seen and the thunders of your onset heard from east to
west, and be ye the avengers of noble blood.